Add full release docs (#42)
TeamNewPipe/documentation: docs/NaN_Full_release_docs.md

### Preliminary steps

#### Permissions

- have admin rights on Weblate
    - you should be able to access [Weblate's Maintenance page](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/newpipe/#repository)
- have at least maintainer rights on the NewPipe and NewPipeExtractor repos

#### Repositories

- have a cloned NewPipe local repository (for the rest of the page `origin` is assumed to be the remote at `github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe`)
- add the `weblate` remote to the same local repository (the URL used below can be found in the Maintenance page on Weblate)
    - `git remote add weblate https://hosted.weblate.org/git/newpipe/strings/`
- make sure there are no pending changes
    - `git clean -fdx` to **discard** them all (**CAUTION**)
- go on the `dev` branch and make sure is up-to-date with remote:
    - `git checkout dev`
    - `git pull origin dev`

#### Version name and conventions

> - find the version code of the next release by looking for `versionCode` into [`app/build.gradle`](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/blob/dev/app/build.gradle): that value plus one (from now on called `NEW_VERSION_CODE`) will be the new value (but do not edit the file yet)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- find the version code of the next release by looking for `versionCode` in [`app/build.gradle`](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/blob/dev/app/build.gradle): 1 added to that value (from now on called `NEW_VERSION_CODE`) will be the new value (but do not edit the file yet)
```

- choose the version number of the next release according to [semantic versioning](http://semver.org/) (from now on called `X.X.X`)

#### Identification

- have `gpg` installed and usable on your PC

> - have a GPG key to be used to make sure it is actually you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- have a GPG key, which can be used to verify that a file is really from you
```

- press the *Update* button to update Weblate with the latest changes on NewPipe's `dev` branch
- press the *Commit* button, if needed, to make sure Weblate creates a commit for translations which had not been committed yet
- now go back to the local git repository
- in case you followed these steps before, delete the `weblate-dev` branch
    - `git branch -D weblate-dev`
- fetch new changes from the `weblate` remote
    - `git fetch weblate`
- create a new branch starting from `weblate/dev`, named `weblate-dev`, and switch to it
    - `git checkout -b weblate-dev weblate/dev`
- if you run `git log --oneline --graph` you should see a Weblate commit on top, and then all of the commits currently on the `dev` branch:
    ```
    * cmt12hash (HEAD -> weblate-dev, weblate/dev) Translated using Weblate (...)
    * cmt89hash (origin/dev, dev) Commit message ...
    ```
- switch back to the `dev` branch
    - `git checkout dev`
- merge `weblate-dev` into `dev`:
    - `git merge weblate-dev`

### Create a changelog

- finalize the draft changelog [kept on GitHub](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases), in case there are still some things to fill in

>     - remove temporary instructions and numbers before `-`, that keep track in which order the PRs were merged, but which is useful information only for blogpost writers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - remove the temporary instructions, and the numbers before `-` which keep track of the order in which the PRs were merged, as that info is useful only for the blog post writers
```

    - before removing that information, you may want to send the original changelog to the blogpost writers
- create a new English changelog in the [`fastlane/metadata/android/en-US/changelogs/`](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/blob/dev/fastlane/metadata/android/en-US/changelogs/) folder

> - the file should be named `NEW_VERSION_CODE.txt`, using the new version code found in [Preliminary steps](#preliminary-steps)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the file should be named `NEW_VERSION_CODE.txt`, using the new version code found in the [Preliminary steps](#preliminary-steps)
```

- the file should have this structure (sections with no points can be removed):
    ```
    New
    • ...

    Improved
    • ...

    Fixed
    • ...
    ```
- make sure you use the `•` for points (it looks nicer than `-`)
- capitalize the first letter in each point
- use English verbs as if you were asking someone to do something, so for example use "Fix abc" and not "Fixed abc"; this allows saving a few characters and using a consistent style
- prepend `[SERVICE]` to service-only changes (e.g. "• \[YouTube\] Add mixes")
- summarize only the most important changes from the draft release [kept on GitHub](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases) (it contains all merged pull requests)
- make sure the file size is **at most 500 bytes**, in order to **fit [F-Droid's changelog size limit](https://f-droid.org/en/docs/All_About_Descriptions_Graphics_and_Screenshots/#fastlane-structure) (!)**
- commit the file on the `dev` branch (try to stick to the provided commit message template)
    - `git add fastlane/metadata/android/en-US/changelogs/NEW_VERSION_CODE.txt`
    - `git commit -m "Add changelog for vX.X.X (NEW_VERSION_CODE)"`

### Push the changelog to Weblate

> Now there shuold be two new commits (the Weblate and changelog ones) on your local `dev` branch which are not on NewPipe's remote `dev` branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now there should be two new commits (the Weblate and changelog ones) on your local `dev` branch, which are not on NewPipe's remote `dev` branch.
```

- if you are an admin of the NewPipe repo, just push the changes to the remote `dev`
    - `git push origin dev`
    - if you are not an admin, create a pull request normally and ask someone with maintainer access to merge it
- go to [Weblate's Maintenance tab](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/newpipe/#repository)
- press the *Update* button to update Weblate with the commit you just pushed on NewPipe's `dev` branch
- **press the *Unlock*** button to allow translators to translate the changelog and possibly other components (**do not forget this step!**)
- note that we had to do this process on NewPipe's `dev` branch because:

>     - Weblate's components are connected to NewPipe's `dev` branch and will update changes from there

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Weblate's components are connected to NewPipe's `dev` branch, and will update changes from there
```

    - Weblate's git repo is not writable, so there is no way to push commits there manually

### Creating the release branch

- create a new branch starting from `dev`, named `release-X.X.X`, and switch to it
    - `git checkout -b release-X.X.X`
- edit the [`app/build.gradle`](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/blob/dev/app/build.gradle) file to update the extractor
    - set the NewPipeExtractor dependency version to a suitable one (usually [the last commit in the NewPipeExtractor repo](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipeExtractor/commits/dev))

> - commit the extractor update (if you used a specific version, specify `to VERSION` in the commit message)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- commit the extractor update (if you used a specific version, append `to VERSION` to the commit message)
```

    - `git add app/build.gradle`
    - `git commit -m "Update NewPipeExtractor"`
- edit the [`app/build.gradle`](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/blob/dev/app/build.gradle) file to bump the release

>     - set `versionCode` to `NEW_VERSION_CODE`, i.e. increment the value by one as described in [Preliminary steps](#preliminary-steps)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - set `versionCode` to `NEW_VERSION_CODE`, i.e. increment the value by 1 as described in the [Preliminary steps](#preliminary-steps)
```

    - set `versionName` to `"X.X.X"`
- commit the version bump (try to stick to the provided commit message template)
    - `git add app/build.gradle`
    - `git commit -m "Release vX.X.X (NEW_VERSION_CODE)"`
- push the newly created branch to the NewPipe repo
    - `git push upstream release-X.X.X`

### Creating the Pull Request

- create a Pull Request (PR) from the new branch you just pushed
    - if you used the correct branch name you should be able to use this url, after changing the X.X.X: https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/pull/new/release-X.X.X
- make sure the PR has `master` as the *base* branch and `release-X.X.X` as the *compare* branch
- the PR title should be "Release vX.X.X (NEW_VERSION_CODE)"

> - remove all of the PR template and instead put these two lines in the description (the `ISSUE_NUMBER` will be replaced later):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- remove the entire PR template, and instead put these two lines in the description (the `ISSUE_NUMBER` will be replaced later):
```

    ```
    Do not report regressions here, but rather in the corresponding issue: #ISSUE_NUMBER
    The changelog is also there.
    ```

> - once you created the PR, note down its number (from now on called `PR_NUMBER`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- once you have created the PR, note down its number (from now on called `PR_NUMBER`)
```

> - in case some issue should be closed when the release PR is merged, link them using the "Development" tab on the right, or add a "Fixes #...." in the PR description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- in case some issue would be fixed when the release PR is merged, link them using the "Development" tab on the right, or add a "Fixes #...." in the PR description
```

> - *for example check out [#8231](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/pull/8231) as a reference*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *for example, check out [#8231](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/pull/8231) for reference*
```

### Creating the issue

- create an issue
    - click [here](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/issues/new) to open one without a template
- the issue title should be "Release vX.X.X (please TEST!)"
- the issue should have some sections, in the same order as provided below, with `##` before titles
- the `## Testing for regressions` section should contain the following lines; more information about how to obtain the APK are given at [Testing APKs](testing-apks)
    ```
    Debug APK (built by our CI in #PR_NUMBER): ...
    Please report **only regressions** (i.e. new issues) here, not issues that were already present in the previous release!
    ```

> - the `## TODO` section should contain a list of things that still need to be done before releasing, for example regressions that need to be fixed, or a reminder to merge the Weblate changelogs before releasing (use `- [ ]` to create checkbox lists)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- an optional `## TODO` section should contain a list of things that still need to be done before releasing, for example regressions that need to be fixed, or a reminder to merge the Weblate changelogs before releasing (use `- [ ]` to create checkbox lists)
```

- the `## NewPipeExtractor version` should contain a link to the NewPipeExtractor release this new NewPipe version will ship with (i.e. the one set in [Creating the release branch](#creating-the-release-branch))

> - copy-paste the draft Markdown changelog [kept on GitHub](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases) (you finalized it earlier in [Create a changelog](#create-a-changelog)) and put it under the `## App changelog` section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- copy the draft Markdown changelog [kept on GitHub](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases) (you finalized it earlier in [Create a changelog](#create-a-changelog)) to the clipboard and paste it under the `## App changelog` section
```

> - once you created the issue, pin it using the "Pin issue" button on the right

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- once you have created the issue, pin it using the "Pin issue" button on the right
```

> - *for example check out [#8230](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/pull/8230) as a reference*

Reviewer: see above

Author: ```suggestion
- *for example, check out [#8230](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/issues/8230) for reference*
```

### Testing APKs

> The first time you open the release issue and then each time some changes are made to the release PR, you should provide a debug APK in the `## Testing for regressions` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first time you open the release issue, and then each time some changes are made to the release PR, you should provide a debug APK in the `## Testing for regressions` section.
```

> - wait for the Continuous Integration (CI) to finish in the PR, then download from the "Checks" tab the debug APK it has built

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- wait for the Continuous Integration (CI) to finish testing the PR, then download the debug APK it will have built from the "Checks" tab
```

> - rename it to `NewPipe_vX.X.X_RC1_debug.apk` where `RC1` should be incremented to `RC2`, ... each time a new APK is provided

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- rename it to `NewPipe_vX.X.X_RC1_debug.apk` where `RC1` should be incremented to `RC2` and so on each time a new APK is provided
```

Pull requests fixing regressions should target the `release-X.X.X` branch, not the `dev` branch! When merging those PRs, also provide a new RC APK.

### Finally merging the pull request

Once enough time has passed and all regressions and TODOs have been solved, you can proceed with the actual release. The following points include merging weblate changes again.
- in the local repository, check out the release branch and make sure it is up-to-date with the remote
    - `git checkout release-X.X.X`
    - `git pull origin release-X.X.X`
- go to [Weblate's Maintenance tab](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/newpipe/#repository)
- press *Lock*; remember to *Unlock* later!
- press *Update*
- press *Commit*, if needed
- now go back to the local git repository
- delete the `weblate-dev` branch, just in case
    - `git branch -D weblate-dev`
- fetch changes from Weblate (in particular you should see the `weblate/dev` remote branch being updated)
    - `git fetch weblate`
- obtain the hash of the last commit on the `weblate/dev` remote branch
    - `git log -n 1 --pretty="format:%H" weblate/dev`

> - cherry pick the has you obtained above into the release branch (the one you are currently on)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- cherry pick the hash you obtained above into the release branch (the one you are currently on)
```
